Let's move on to analyzing datasets for high cardinality.
How do we define a field with high cardinality?
First, we must determine if it is a categorical feature.
Next, we need to determine if it has a high number of unique values.
This is a bit subjective,
but we can probably agree that for a field with two unique values,
this would not have high cardinality.
Whereas a field like diagnosis codes might have
tens of thousands of unique values which would have high cardinality.
So let's go back to the note book and look at how to analyze for high cardinality.
An important characteristic to look for an EHR datasets is cardinality,
and this applies to categorical features.
Cardinality, as we mentioned refers to the number of unique values that a feature has,
and is relevant to EHR datasets because there are code sets such as
diagnosis codes in the order of tens of thousands of unique codes.
This is compounded by the possible combinations of procedure codes, lab codes,
in medication codes that make up a typical visit encounter with a medical professional.
For this exercise, we will use the previous dataset we
mentioned and then calculate the number of unique values for each column.
Before that though, we had to determine which columns are categorical.
Based off of this result,
which field has a high degree of carnality?
So we're using these categorical features that we've identified,
and then we are calculating the cardinality.
So which features have a high degree of cardinality?
As you can see, this feature that we created,
principal diagnosis code, has a high degree of cardinality.
Why is this important to know?
Well, in the next lesson,
we will review ways to reduce
this dimensionality and find ways to better represent the data for modeling.